 Preventing flu: Scientists find bacteria in Japanese pickled turnips which could boost immune system  Preventing flu: Scientists find bacteria in Japanese pickled turnips which could boost immune system  November 8, 2013  Scientists have discovered that eating a traditional Japanese pickle could have “protective effects” in preventing people from catching the flu.  Human trials have been started after a study in mice showed the bacterium in suguki, a pickled turnip dish popular in Japan, reduced the likelihood the animals would contract illness.  According to the findings, which have been published in the journal Letters in Applied Microbiology, the Lactobacillus brevis bacteria led to increased production of disease-fighting antibodies – including flu-specific ones.  The impact in mice was strong enough to prevent infection from the H1N1 flu strain.  Researchers said a new study was now under way, in which they are giving people a probiotic drink containing the same KB290 strain of the bacterium found in suguki.  Study author Naoko Waki, from the Japanese food company Kagome, said: “Our results show that when a particular strain of Lactobacillus brevis is eaten by mice, it has protective effects against influenza virus infection.”  We guarantee to always challenge your current supplier whilst also offering best value  Costs can vary due to extent or location, we offer our customers competitive pricing whilst also offering best value. Best value isn’t just the cheapest initial price, it’s the lowest cost over the ‘whole life’ of the product plus performance quality. All our products are designed to be fit for purpose for commercial use.  Contact Us  We take pride in offering a personal service, please don’t hesitate to call, we’re always happy to talk.  Sales and operations: Tel: 020 7237 0099 Email: info@grosvenorcontracts.com  Contact form  Name (required)  Email (required)  Message (required)  14 + 15 ? (Are you human?)  Join our mailing list for special offers from Grosvenor Contracts and to hear about the latest industry news  Your Email  We guarantee to always challenge your current supplier whilst also offering best value  Costs can vary due to extent or location, we offer our customers competitive pricing whilst also offering best value. Best value isn’t just the cheapest initial price, it’s the lowest cost over the ‘whole life’ of the product plus performance quality. All our products are designed to be fit for purpose for commercial use.  Contact Us  We take pride in offering a personal service, please don’t hesitate to call, we’re always happy to talk.  Sales and operations: Tel: 020 7237 0099 Email: info@grosvenorcontracts.com  Join our mailing list for special offers from Grosvenor Contracts and to hear about the latest industry news  We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it. Ok 