 Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result.  Albert Einstein  Everyone should know that the 'war on cancer' is largely a fraud.  Author and two-time Nobel Prize Winner Linus Pauling  Cancer can take away all of my physical abilities. It cannot touch my mind, it cannot touch my heart, and it cannot touch my soul.  Jim Valvano  Bitterness is like cancer. It eats upon the host. But anger is like fire. It burns it all clean.  Stay up-to-date on the Most Effective Cancer Treatments with CancerTutor.com  Preventing and Treating the Flu (any type)  Written by Webster Kehr, Independent Cancer Research Foundation, Inc. | Last updated on February 13, 2015 | Filed under: Cold and Flu , Other Health Conditions  WARNING  This article is on preventing the flu and the common cold. If you do get the flu, there are also treatments for the flu on this article. However, be aware that for some people getting the flu can be very dangerous and even fatal. Likewise, some cases of pneumonia are thought to be a common cold. If things start to get out of hand, seek medical help immediately.  Most deaths from the flu are caused by dehydration . If a person gets the flu, consuming sugar will INCREASE dehydration. If you do get sick, do not eat or drink anything for 3 hours. Then you can gradually start drinking water and eventually add other things (which do NOT contain sugar).  Introduction  This article talks about preventing the flu (any type) and treating the flu if a person already has it.  It is far, far easier to prevent the flu than to catch the flu and try to treat it. In fact, it is easy and inexpensive to prevent the flu. So as you might suspect, “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.”  However, if you are serious about preventing the flu you should make sure you have all of the products needed to treat the flu. The reason is that you can actually STOP the flu dead in its tracks in many instances if you have the right products ON HAND (e.g. 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide ).  The vast majority of homes in the United States do not have the necessary products to prevent the flu, to stop the flu dead in its tracks or to treat the flu to make sure it does not get dangerous!!!  That is why you need to read this entire article and make sure you have the products you want to use (there will be options so you don’t need everything) should the flu strike your home.  Also, be aware that the doses for children are far less than the doses for adults. All doses on this article are for adults. You will have to decide for yourself what doses to give for your children, though usually it is simply a proportional dose based on an adult weight of 150 pounds compared to the weight of the child.  If the child weighs less than 50 pounds, and you are using colloidal silver , then you should ONLY use ASAP Plus for the treatment of the flu. ASAP Plus is very safe for children when used in a proportional dose.  Preventing the Flu  There will be several options for preventing the flu. You only need one of the options.  Prevention Option – Stabilized Oxygen  Throughout the history of alternative medicine, “stabilized oxygen” has been the most trusted and most effective way to prevent the flu. In fact, for several decades stabilized oxygen has been used in alternative medicine to prevent the flu or common colds.  This product can be purchased at some health food stores under the brands: Aerobic O7 (this is an “Oh” as in Oxygen), Aerobic K07 (with potassium), Rose Creek Vitamin O (again an “Oh” as in Oxygen), etc.  For example, I took a stabilized oxygen product for 2 and a half years (15 drops a day) and during that time I did not get a cold or the flu. This was unusual for me since I was always getting the cold or the flu.  The stabilized oxygen products typically contain 3% to 7% sodium chlor ite . Sodium chlorite is a very different molecule than common table salt, which is sodium chlor ide .  A new stabilized oxygen product came out in about 2006 or 2007 which is 28% sodium chlorite. The product is called MMS or Miracle Mineral Supplement. This product would only require 3 drops a day for an adult. Plus it is much less expensive than the health food store brands. MMS can only be purchased online.  Just remember that an adult only needs 3 drops of MMS to prevent the flu, though I would take 4 drops a day if the flu is “going around” in your area.  The drops only need to be taken once a day.  So how does a person (e.g. a child) take less than a drop of MMS, if a proportional dose is less than one drop? Let us say a child needs to take 1/2 drop. Put one drop of MMS in a small glass of water. Then have the child drink only half the glass of water .  Here is one of many vendors of MMS. I would order at least 4 bottles of MMS (each bottle of MMS comes with 5 bottles of the citric acid activator) because it is likely you will have friends or family who will need their own bottle: http://www.h2oairwateramericas.com/ [Miracle Mineral Supplement]  Note: Stabilized oxygen products are sold as “water purification” products to avoid FDA persecution even though they are perfectly safe and in high doses are a cure for malaria.  As an option to sodium chlorite, I have heard similar stories about Vitamin C being used to prevent the flu or colds. However, a few words need to be said about Vitamin C.  Vitamin C can be purchased as citric acid or a mineral ascorbate, such as sodium ascorbate. There are other forms as well, such as potassium ascorbate .  What these other forms are is citric acid bound to a mineral in some form. Citric acid, by itself, is not effective in the body until it has bound to a mineral and has been converted into a mineral ascorbate or some other form.  Thus, the best form of Vitamin C is a mineral ascorbate because it has already been made ready for the body to use. Mineral ascorbates also do not leech minerals from your body since they already have the minerals.  Most, if not all, mineral ascorbate products are actually a combination of citric acid and mineral ascorbates.  I do not know an exact dose for Vitamin C, but I am confident that 5 grams a day will prevent the flu if it is a quality brand.  It should also be noted that a person who is not used to taking Vitamin C should not start taking Vitamin C at a dose of 5 grams. This will cause diarrhea. The person should build up to that dose. I would suggest the following build-up schedule (to avoid diarrhea):  Day 1) 1/2 gram  Next Day) 1 gram (if 1/2 gram was tolerated or repeat 1/2 gram)  Next Day) 2 grams (if 1 gram was tolerated or repeat 1 gram)  Next Day) 3 grams (if 2 grams was tolerated or repeat 2 grams)  Next Day) 4 grams (if 3 grams was tolerated or repeat 3 grams)  Thereafter) 5 grams (if 4 grams was tolerated or repeat 4 grams)  I do not know if Vitamin C in the form of mineral ascorbates can be purchased at a health food store, but if they cannot, you should buy a citric acid version at a health food store and then go on the Internet to buy the good kind of Vitamin C.  Dr. Stanley Jacobs, the world’s foremost expert on DMSO (Dimethyl Sulfoxide) , which is a natural product made during the processing of wood to make paper, claimed he took one TEAspoon of DMSO every day for over 30 years and during that time he did not catch a single case of the flu or common cold!!  One reason DMSO may be able to prevent the flu and colds is that it TARGETS the lungs. This is why people who take DMSO have bad breath for short time.  DMSO can only be purchased over the Internet, and due to FDA persecution of DMSO it can only be sold as a “solvent,” even though many, many millions of people have used DMSO and not a single one of them has died due to the DMSO. In my cancer research I have seen people take 25 TABLEspoons of DMSO spread out over 12 hours and no one even complained about the DMSO (Note: few people could tolerate 25 TABLEspoons of DMSO taken orally due to stomach upset. In these cases the DMSO was taken transdermally, meaning through the skin).  WARNING: Do NOT take DMSO orally without mixing it with at least 4 ounces of water. In other words, put the 1 TEAspoon in four ounces of water before taking the DMSO.  Also, many people have body odor when taking even one TEAspoon of DMSO, thus it generally should be taken at night and in the morning make sure you take a shower and a breath mint.  I cannot imagine an adult would have stomach problems taking 1/2 TEAspoon of DMSO orally, but if you have nausea then you may need to build up to the 1/2 TEAspoon.  The best form of DMSO is 70/30, meaning 70% pure DMSO (e.g. 99.9% DMSO) mixed with 30% pure water. Here is one of many vendors of 70/30 DMSO:  STOPPING The Flu Dead In Its Tracks  Your Ears  WARNING: For children under 15, 3% hydrogen peroxide should be diluted 50-50 with pure water before it is put in their ears (or if they complain it burns).  Suppose you get your first inkling you are coming down with the flu or a cold. What should you do?  The first thing to realize is that the flu almost always enters the body through the ears. Why the ears? The reason is that your stomach has the ability to kill most viruses, but there is no mechanism in your ear to kill any microbes (well, that is not exactly correct, but there are far less effective things in the ears that can kill microbes than in the stomach).  So how does the virus get in your ears? Generally by sticking a little finger in your ear to “clean out your ear.” For example, your finger will pick up the virus from touching a door knob, then you may routinely put your little finger in your ear later on to clean out your ear.  If you don’t believe me, keep reading anyway and try this treatment.  The instant a person notices the first symptoms of the flu they have only an hour or two to stop the flu or cold dead in its tracks. This can be impossible to do for anyone who is at work, but I will give you some ideas even for that situation and I will talk about a situation where you don’t have food grade hydrogen peroxide.  The first thing a person needs is 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide . You may be able to buy it on the Internet, or more likely you will have to buy 7% food grade hydrogen peroxide (i.e. H 2 O 2 ) or 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide and dilute it down to 3% .  Diluting 35% Hydrogen Peroxide down to 3% Hydrogen Peroxide  35% food grade hydrogen peroxide is VERY DANGEROUS to handle. You should always use rubber gloves and eyeglasses or eye goggles when handling it!!!  Keep 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide (which has not yet been diluted) WAY out of the reach of children and write in bold letters on the plastic bottle what is in the bottle!!!  First, how to dilute 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide to 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide.  To dilute 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide to 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide, use the following formula (this assumes you use a tablespoon to measure, but you can use anything you want – it is the proportions that are important)  1) 10 and one-half TABLEspoons of pure water (put the water in first),  2) 1 TABLEspoon of 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide  Note this is a 10.5 to 1 ratio!!! This will give you the 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide, which is safe to handle (you can even gargle with 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide).  Diluting 7% Hydrogen Peroxide down to 3% Hydrogen Peroxide  Second, how to dilute 7% food grade hydrogen peroxide to 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide.  The formula in this case is 1 1/3 units of pure water to 1 unit of 7% food grade hydrogen peroxide.  For example, a TEAspoon is 1/3 of a TABLEspoon, thus put the following into a glass container:  1) 1 TABLEspoon of pure water,  2) 1 TEAspoon of pure water (which is 1/3 of a TABLEspoon),  3) 1 TABLEspoon of 7% food grade hydrogen peroxide.  7% food grade hydrogen peroxide is not as dangerous to handle as 35% food grade hydrogen peroxide, but still keep it away from children. It can burn if they drink it.  Using the 3% Food Grade Hydrogen Peroxide  ( Note: If a child accidentally drinks 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide it is perfectly safe and will cause no harm. However, they will very likely get sick to their stomach.)  Once you have your 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide you can use it to stop the flu. This is how:  Fill an eyedropper 1/4th full with 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide. Lay on the floor or lay on the bed and lay on your side (either way use a pillow). Empty the eyedropper into your ear.  The hydrogen peroxide should stay in your ear for 10 minutes or until it quits bubbling (whichever is longer). The bubbling is the hydrogen peroxide killing microbes.  When you get up you can gently use a Q-Tip to clean your ear out.  Then do exactly the same thing to your other ear as you lay on your other side.  Do this 2 or 3 times a day.  Do this protocol (of putting hydrogen peroxide in your ears 2 or 3 times a day) until you are over the flu or there is no bubbling in either ear.  The ear that originally had the loudest or fastest-bubbling sound is likely the ear in which the flu entered your body.  If you did not hear any bubbling in your ears, then likely you got the flu via your lungs.  Or You Are In Your Office or Workplace and Cannot Lay Down?  If you don’t have food grade hydrogen peroxide handy, then you can go to any drug store and buy 3% hydrogen peroxide. Also, buy Q-Tips while you are there.  However, store bought hydrogen peroxide is not food grade so you should administer it differently. Instead of putting it in an eyedropper (which would probably be safe, but just to make sure …) stick the Q-Tip into the bottle (you do not need to be laying down).  Once the Q-Tip is saturated put it gently in your right ear and gently use a circular motion to make sure you cover all of the inside of your ear. Then do the same thing in your left ear.  If you are in your office, use the food grade hydrogen peroxide (or store bought hydrogen peroxide) with the Q-Tip in the same manner.  Either way, you won’t hear any bubbling, so you will have to do this 4 or 5 times in each ear.  Your Bloodstream  In addition to treating your ears, to stop a flu dead in its tracks, you need to take something to kill the nasty viruses in your bloodstream (whether you heard any bubbling or not in your ears).  While stabilized oxygen (mentioned above) is a good way to do this, the problem is that much higher doses of stabilized oxygen are needed for a treatment than for prevention (if that is what you used for prevention). A treatment would require 15 drops of MMS and it is too big of a jump to get to 15 drops of MMS directly from 3 or 4 drops of MMS. Your stomach will likely not agree with that large of a jump in one day. And the flu doesn’t give you much time to build up.  WARNING: do not try to jump from 3 or 4 drops of MMS to 15 drops. This can cause severe diarrhea and vomiting. Doses of MMS should always be increases slowly, one drop at a time.  Because MMS is not an option, you will have to use something which is never a problem for the stomach. That would be colloidal silver .  ( Note : Some people might wonder why I don’t include colloidal silver as an option to prevent the flu. It is perfectly capable of preventing the flu, but it is much more expensive than the other protocols.)  However, not all colloidal silvers are the same. There are only 3 brands this website recommends:  Yes, I know there are many other brands, but these are the best I know of (and I don’t sell any of them or get any commissions!!).  There are certain rules for storing and shipping any colloidal silver. First, do not allow it to freeze. Second, store it in a cool place. Third, do NOT allow sunlight to hit the bottle.  For ASAP Plus colloidal silver , depending on your weight (and these are for adults only, children should use lower doses) take:  1) Less than 100 pounds: 1 TABLEspoon of ASAP Plus every two hours, for 12 hours (i.e. 7 times)  2) 100 – 150 pounds: 2 TABLEspoons of ASAP Plus every two hours, for 12 hours (ditto)  3) Over 150 pounds: 3 TABLEspoons of ASAP Plus every two hours, for 12 hours (ditto).  1) Less than 100 pounds: 1/2 TABLEspoon of Utopia Silver every two hours, for 12 hours (i.e. 7 times)  2) 100 – 150 pounds: 1 TABLEspoons of Utopia Silver every two hours, for 12 hours (ditto)  3) Over 150 pounds: 1 1/2 TABLEspoons (i.e. 1.5 TABLEspoons) of Utopia Silver every two hours, for 12 hours (ditto).  For MesoSilver , use the same doses as for Utopia Silver.  Use these doses until the flu is gone, then take them for an additional 2 days.  Do not be deceived by the higher doses of ASAP Plus. It is actually the most potent of the 3 brands. But it is also the safest. Go figure. It is simply a superb product.  If you did the math, you are going to need several bottles of whichever brand you choose. And you can typically assume more than one person is going to get the flu if the flu is in your house.  If You Don’t Have One of the Colloidal Silver Brands  If you do not have access to one of the top colloidal silver brands, all I can suggest is to go to a health food store and buy 2 or 3 bottles of the best Vitamin C you can get. Try to build up to 10 grams of vitamin C a day. Notice there is a build-up, but you might be able to build-up every couple of hours.  Treating the Flu  Treating the flu is simply a continuation of trying to stop the flu dead in its tracks.  As long as you have the flu you should be putting hydrogen peroxide in your ears 2 or 3 times a day.  Since the flu usually only lasts 1 or 2 days (though the sore muscles may last much longer than that), simply continue the colloidal silver treatment or vitamin C treatment.  Electromedicine  By far the fastest and best way to deal with microbes is to use electromedicine.  There are many electromedicine devices which can deal with the flu. If you have multiple people to take care of you should have one of the electromedicine devices which can quickly kill viruses.  The device which works the quickest, and costs only about $300, is the Ultimate Zapper which comes out of Canada. You should buy the foot pads. By connecting the foot pads and the hand bars to the device; a potent, yet perfectly safe, electrical current will pass through your lungs, killing any microbes in your lungs.  Keep These Products Handy  I should emphasize having these products on hand.  During a serious flu pandemic any of the key colloidal silver products may become impossible to obtain. You are not the only person who knows colloidal silver (or vitamin C) is a key to treating viruses.  In addition, these products can be used for many household purposes if they are on hand.  For example, if a person gets a toothache, soaking the tooth in 3% food grade hydrogen peroxide (by putting the hydrogen peroxide in the mouth and covering the tooth with the hydrogen peroxide) can easily knock out a toothache, thus preventing a root canal.  There are many situations where hydrogen peroxide, DMSO, colloidal silver, vitamin C and MMS can be helpful in preventing or curing health problems.  Thus, it is critical to buy these five things whether the flu is going around or not. The Internet is full of uses for these products!!  Find Out What Your Doctor Hasn't Told You!  A doctor's authority in America often exceeds his or her knowledge. Whole bodies of knowledge in healing are ignored because they are unorthodox and non-medical.  A doctor's education seems exhaustive, yet MDs study so much about drugs and surgery - and so little about nutrition, fasting, herbal remedies, spinal manipulation, massage, vitamin and mineral therapy, homeopathy, and more - that we realize their qualifications are incomplete. (Andrew Saul, co-host of That Vitamin Summit).  All great reasons not to miss That Vitamin Summit , online and free from May 12 to 18, 2016!  Don’t ignore this for one more day…  More than 80 years of documented evidence shows how humble vitamins can prevent, and even cure, disease. Major diseases like cancer, diabetes and heart disease. That Vitamin Summit has assembled more than 25 of the world’s top experts to show YOU how to use vitamins to increase your health and well being almost immediately.  That Vitamin Summit will teach you:  How to prevent and stop the progression of major diseases with vitamins  Why you may never have heard of the monumental evidence showing that vitamins cure disease  Some simple strategies to make your vitamins more effective  Which vitamins you should definitely avoid  Why dermatologists have got it wrong about vitamin D  Why vitamin C may just be the most important nutrient ever discovered  Latest insights and understanding of vitamin therapy  That Vitamin Summit is online and free from May 12 to 18, 2016!  Key Links  Stay up-to-date on the Most Effective Cancer Treatments with CancerTutor.com  Cancer Tutor  Please Support Alternative Cancer Research The Cancer Tutor website is closely affiliated with the Independent Cancer Research Foundation, Inc (ICRF). The ICRF is one of the premiere alternative cancer treatment research organizations. Please support their research by visiting their website, ICRF Website .  Click here to learn more about Cancer Tutor and its founder Webster Kehr. 