 Flu vaccination is first step  Here are 10 flu vaccine myths that can make you sick. The list comes from sharecare.com.  As you pass through crowded airports or travel stops, staying healthy should be top of mind.  According to the CDC, flu activity is still low in the United States, but is expected to rise in the weeks ahead.  Dr. Susan Rehm, an infectious disease expert at Cleveland Clinic, says there are a couple of things you can do to ward off the flu when traveling.  "Number one, you and everyone in your family should get vaccinated, the second thing is wash your hands frequently," said Rehm.  The flu is primarily spread through the air when droplets from infected coughs and sneezes are inhaled.  Vaccination is the best protection from the flu.  It’s recommended that everyone 6 months and older get a flu vaccine, especially people in high risk groups like children, pregnant women and seniors.  Even though touching infected objects is a secondary way of catching the flu, it’s still a good idea to wash your hands often and avoid touching your eyes, nose or mouth.  When soap and water aren’t available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer instead.  And if you’re sitting next to someone who appears to be ill, Rehm says etiquette and infection control go hand in hand.  The best thing you can do is to get away if you possibly can. If that’s not an option, you might offer the person a tissue, offer the person a hand sanitizer and politely say 'I see you’re not feeling well, can I help in any way?'"  If you think you have the flu, protect others by staying home.  And be sure to cough or sneeze into a tissue or your elbow to reduce germ spread.  It’s also important to remember the flu is treatable with antiviral medication if taken within the first 48 hours, so contact your doctor immediately.  Copyright 2014 by WCVB.com All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.  Cleanup is under way after a hoverboard ignited a fire inside an apartment building on Hanover Street in Boston's North End.  Confirm Unsubscribe  Are you sure you would like to unsubscribe from all current subscriptions?  Yes No  Confirm Delete  Are you sure you want to delete your profile and all of its subscriptions?  Yes No  You are logged out  Your profile has been deleted.  Close  Please set an email address for your profile  No email address was supplied by . To complete your registration on this site, please supply an address.  Please confirm or modify the email address to which you will have subscription offers sent.  Email  Save and Close Cancel  Personalize Profile  For a more personalized experience, please supply the following optional information. 