 Flu Prevention  Saving lives, protecting your workforce  Prevention is better than cure when it comes to any illness, and influenza (the flu) is no exception. Learn how the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) helps to safeguard our nation. CDC’s efforts range from working to predict what flu viruses may spread during the upcoming flu season, to monitoring where flu is causing illness, to providing information that helps protect businesses, communities and individuals against flu.  Business Challenges  Each year, on average, 5 percent to 20 percent of the U.S. population gets the flu, tens of thousands are hospitalized and thousands die from flu-related illness. This costs an estimated $10.4 billion a year in direct medical expenses and an additional $16.3 billion in lost earnings annually. Employers can play an important role in preventing flu, helping to protect employees’ health and reducing losses in productivity and revenue.  Molinari NA, et al. Vaccine 25 (2007)  Flu Seasons are unpredictable and vary in severity  But statistics underscore the seriousness of the disease  It has been estimated that each year in the United States, flu results in:  Influenza can make anyone sick  Including healthy employees critical to business continuity. During the 2013-2014 season, for example:  Adults 18-64 years of age accounted for almost 60% of reported flu hospitalizations.  CDC FluView Interactive  Working parents should consider the threat flu can pose to their children  Children are the most likely to become infected with flu, and children younger than five years of age are among those who are at high risk of serious flu complications.  According to a 2012 CDC Study:  Caregivers of children sick with flu had medical expenses ranging from About $300 to $4,000  Work hours lost by caregivers seeking medical care for children sick with flu  11  hours  in outpatient settings  19  hours  in emergency departments  Caregivers of hospitalized children reported an average of 73 hours of work time lost (equivalent to about $1,456)  Ortega-Sanchez IR, et al. Vaccine 30 (2012)  CDC Business Benefits  CDC is one of the world’s foremost experts on influenza. American businesses, employees and communities rely on CDC to provide the best guidance possible on how to prevent and control the spread of influenza.  Vaccination is the single best way to prevent the flu  During 2012-2013, an estimated 45 percent of the U.S. population got vaccinated , helping to prevent an estimated 6.6 million flu-related illnesses, 3.2 million flu-related medical visits and 79,000 hospitalizations.  Many more people could have been protected if they had gotten vaccinated.  CDC. MMWR 62 (2013)  CDC provides employers, healthcare providers and the public with key, up-to-date information about influenza.  CDC Also Provides  information about antiviral drugs to treat flu, and tips on good health habits that help stop the spread of germs  speak directly to people who are at high risk of developing flu-related complications—many of whom are in the workforce—including:  Pregnant women  People with certain medical conditions such as asthma, morbid obesity, diabetes and heart disease  CDC Answers  which flu viruses  the annual flu vaccine will protect against  CDC collaborates with many U.S. and international partners to  Monitor Flu Year-Round  Did You Know  Getting Vaccinated  protects you and the people around you who may be more vulnerable to serious flu illness.  The flu can affect any age>  Infants younger than six months old are too young to get vaccinated. That’s why it’s so important for their caregivers to get vaccinated.  The timing of the flu season.  is unpredictable and varies by year.  Flu activity usually peaks between January and March and can last until May.  CDC recommends getting vaccinated  Every Fall  As long as flu is circulating,  It's not too late to get vaccinated  The flu vaccine protects against several different flu viruses, providing protection all season long.  Antiviral drugs  are a second line of defense that can treat flu if you get sick.  Flu viruses can change from season to season and immunity declines over time so it is important to get vaccinated each year.  Getting Vaccinated  protects you and the people around you who may be more vulnerable to serious flu illness.  The flu can affect any age>  Infants younger than six months old are too young to get vaccinated. That's why its so important for their caregivers to get vaccinated.  The timing of the flu season  is unpredictable and varies by year.  Flu activity usually peaks between January and March and can last until May.  CDC recommends getting vaccinated  Every Fall  As long as flu is circulating,  It's not too late to get vaccinated  The flu vaccine protects against several different flu viruses, providing protection all season long.  Antiviral drugs  are a second line of defense that can treat flu if you get sick.  Flu viruses can change from season to season and immunity declines over time so it is important to get vaccinated each year.  Take Action  Leverage CDC’s free resources to better protect your business and your employees from influenza.  Encourage employees to get vaccinated  Announce availability through newsletters, email or paycheck inserts  Prevent the spread of germs and remind employees to  Avoid contact with sick people  Stay home and away from others when they’re sick  Practice other good health habits  Lead By Example  Get vaccinated annually  Check with your doctor if you’re pregnant or have certain medical conditions and get flu symptoms  For Employees  Lead By Example  Get vaccinated annually  Encourage coworkers and family to get vaccinated  Check with your doctor promptly  If you’re pregnant or have certain medical conditions and you get flu symptoms  Stop the spread of germs at work and at home  Avoid close contact with sick people  Stay home and away from others when you’re sick  Cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing  Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth  Practice other good health habits  Stay Current  with the latest CDC information on flu activity in the United States  For more details about CDC's flu prevention resources and to sign up for future issues of Business Pulse 