 Flu Prevention Tips  Don’t have the flu and don’t want to get it? There are some simple health habits you can work into your life to minimize the chances of getting the flu.  Wash those hands  The flu virus can spread by direct contact, such as sharing drinks, or through indirect contact, such as when an infected coworker sneezes on her hands and touches an object like the lunchroom microwave door. The influenza virus can live for 2 to 8 hours on surfaces. During flu season, everyone should wash their hands frequently to reduce the risk of transmitting germs to others. Wash your hands often with soap and water. If soap and water are not available, use an alcohol-based hand rub.* 1  Cover your sneezes and coughs  When you sneeze or cough, cover your nose and mouth with a tissue (not your hands), and be sure to throw the tissue away immediately.  You can also cough into your sleeve if you don't have a tissue handy. Hand sanitizers can also help. Try to avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth to keep germs away.  *  If soap and water are not available and alcohol-based products are not allowed, other hand sanitizers that do not contain alcohol may be useful.  Additional flu resources  Influenza isn’t usually something you think about until flu season comes around or until you or a family member comes down with the flu.  In this section, you will find valuable downloadable resources for the flu season:  See Our YouTube Videos!  Are You “That Guy”?  If you think you have the flu, do the right thing. Watch the video ›  Developed in partnership with the NFID (National Foundation for Infectious Diseases)  Tips to Stay Flu-Free  Good preventive health habits, an annual flu vaccine, and prescription flu medicines can help keep you and your family flu-free — all year long! Learn more ›  You are now leaving FluF.A.C.T.S.com  The link you have selected will take you away from this site to one that is owned by a third party and is not owned or controlled by Genentech, Inc. Genentech, Inc., makes no representation as to the accuracy of the information contained on sites we do not own or control. Genentech does not recommend and does not endorse the content on any third-party website. Your use of third-party websites is at your own risk and subject to the terms and conditions of use for such sites. 