 Is It the Flu?  If you're experiencing fever, aches, chills and tiredness, you may have the flu. Don't wait for things to get worse. Ask your doctor about Tamiflu.  Antiviral Tamiflu is FDA-Approved for People 2 Weeks of Age and Older  The flu can come on fast. Check your symptoms and learn more about a prescription flu treatment.  Indications  Tamiflu is a prescription medicine used to treat the flu (influenza) in people 2 weeks of age and older who have had flu symptoms for no more than 2 days. Tamiflu can also reduce the chance of getting the flu in people 1 year and older.  Tamiflu does not prevent bacterial infections that may happen with the flu.  Tamiflu is not a substitute for an annual flu vaccination.  Do not take Tamiflu if you are allergic to oseltamivir phosphate or any of the ingredients in Tamiflu.  Important Safety Information  If you have an allergic reaction or a severe rash with Tamiflu, stop taking it, and contact your doctor right away. This may be very serious.  People with the flu, particularly children and adolescents, may be at an increased risk of seizure, confusion, or abnormal behavior early during their illness.  Let your doctor know if you are pregnant, nursing, have heart problems, breathing problems, a weakened immune system (immunocompromised), kidney problems or other medical conditions as Tamiflu may not be right for you.  Also tell your doctor about any medications you are taking or if you've received a nasal-spray flu vaccine in the past two weeks.  The most common side effects are mild to moderate nausea and vomiting, diarrhea and stomach pain.  Please see the Tamiflu full Prescribing Information for complete important safety information.  You are encouraged to report side effects to Genentech by calling 1-888-835-2555 or to the FDA by visiting www.fda.gov/medwatch or calling 1-800-FDA-1088.  Indications and Important Safety Information  Indications  Tamiflu is a prescription medicine used to treat the flu (influenza) in people 2 weeks of age and older who have had flu symptoms for no more than 2 days. Tamiflu can also reduce the chance of getting the flu in people 1 year and older.  Tamiflu does not prevent bacterial infections that may happen with the flu.  Tamiflu is not a substitute for an annual flu vaccination.  Do not take Tamiflu if you are allergic to oseltamivir phosphate or any of the ingredients in Tamiflu.  Important Safety Information  If you have an allergic reaction or a severe rash with Tamiflu, stop taking it, and contact your doctor right away. This may be very serious.  People with the flu, particularly children and adolescents, may be at an increased risk of seizure, confusion, or abnormal behavior early during their illness.  Let your doctor know if you are pregnant, nursing, have heart problems, breathing problems, a weakened immune system (immunocompromised), kidney problems or other medical conditions as Tamiflu may not be right for you.  Also tell your doctor about any medications you are taking or if you've received a nasal-spray flu vaccine in the past two weeks.  The most common side effects are mild to moderate nausea and vomiting, diarrhea and stomach pain.  Please see the Tamiflu full Prescribing Information for complete important safety information.  You are encouraged to report side effects to Genentech by calling 1-888-835-2555 or to the FDA by visiting www.fda.gov/medwatch or calling 1-800-FDA-1088.  You Are Now Leaving Tamiflu.com  The link you have selected will take you away from this site to one that is owned by a third-party and is not owned by Genentech, Inc. Unless otherwise noted on the third-party site, Genentech, Inc. does not own, control or influence content on this third-party site. For such content, Genentech, Inc. makes no representation as to the accuracy of this information and does not recommend or endorse it. Your use of third-party websites is at your own risk and subject to the terms and conditions of use for such sites.  Is It the Flu?  Check the boxes below that describe your symptoms.  Fever  A temperature of 100°F or greater.  Aches  Body aches that are sudden and unexplained.  Chills  Body chills not related to a cold environment.  Tiredness  Tiredness associated with one or more of the other symptoms.  The information presented here does not replace the advice of your healthcare team. Please talk with your healthcare team about your medical condition and treatment.  Next, Answer the Questions Below.  Have you or other family members been recently exposed to someone who has flu symptoms?  Yes No  Below are four key topics to discuss with your doctor, followed by a list of questions. Keep in mind, you can only get Tamiflu through a prescription from your doctor.  You May Be Suffering from the Flu.  Print your results , which will also include a Doctor Discussion Guide (a list of questions for your doctor). Bring them with you to your doctor’s visit and be sure to ask if prescription Tamiflu is right for you.  Your flu symptoms  aches fever chills tiredness  Your temperature  101.6  Time symptoms first appeared  3 hours ago  Have you or a family member been recently exposed to someone who has flu symptoms?  The information presented here does not replace the advice of your healthcare team. Please talk with your healthcare team about your medical condition and treatment.  Questions to Ask Your Doctor  The following questions can help you have a productive conversation with your doctor about your flu symptoms and whether treatment with Tamiflu is right for you.  Should I take antibiotics for the flu?  Can I use antiviral Tamiflu as a way to prevent the flu?  I have children. Can they also use Tamiflu for the flu?  What can I do to protect my children from the flu?  The information presented here does not replace the advice of your healthcare team. Please talk with your healthcare team about your medical condition and treatment.  Enter the Information Below to Share this Page with Your Friends and Family.  About Your Privacy  Genentech respects your privacy and is committed to using commercially reasonable means to protect it. Please review our Privacy Policy to learn more about how we collect, use, share, and protect information online.  You must be 18 years of age or older to submit registration or survey information. If you are under the age of 18 and wish to register to obtain further information or be included in a survey, then your parent or legal guardian must register to obtain the information or participate in a survey.  Share the Care. Pass a $10 Coupon to Your Friends and Family.  About Your Privacy  Genentech respects your privacy and is committed to using commercially reasonable means to protect it. Please review our Privacy Policy to learn more about how we collect, use, share, and protect information online.  You must be 18 years of age or older to submit registration or survey information. If you are under the age of 18 and wish to register to obtain further information or be included in a survey, then your parent or legal guardian must register to obtain the information or participate in a survey.  Your Message Was Sent Successfully!  Share the Tamiflu coupon with others and help them stay ahead of the flu this season. 