 Favorite Schools  Favorite Teams  Preventing falls, Medicare info, VA Medical Center open house and flu shots: Free health events  30Gherbert  Kent State University is holding a Symposium on Aging on Nov. 13. The focus of the day-long event, which is free and open to the public, is on preventing falls at home. (Chuck Crow/Plain Dealer)  CLEVELAND, Ohio --The first Kent State Symposium on Aging will be held from 8 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Thursday, Nov. 13 at the Kent State University Hotel and Conference Center, 215 Depeyster St., Kent. The topic is "Life in the Balance: Fall Prevention From Multidisciplinary Perspectives."  The symposium will cover research on preventing falls in home settings, in healthcare institutions and in the community. Falls are the leading cause of death and injury among older adults, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Margaret Calkins, who joined Kent State this fall as an architectural researcher and coordinator of its Healthcare Design program, will be one of the speakers. Calkins' lecture will be on fall prevention in healthcare settings; she was one of the first researchers to focus on environments for people living with dementia.  For information contact Sheila Pratt, Research and Sponsored Programs, at spratt@kent.edu or 330-672-0701. Go to bit.ly/ksu-fallprevention to register no later than Nov. 6.  Medicare information available for seniors  Fairhill Partners in collaboration with the City of Cleveland Department of Aging and the Benjamin Rose Institute, is holding its Healthy Choices Fair on Thursday, Nov. 6 at Fairhill Partners, 12200 Fairhill Rd., Cleveland.  Three one-hour sessions, starting at 1:30 p.m., 3 p.m. and 4:30 p.m., will provide information on Medicare Part D drug coverage and open enrollment. Information on other wellness programs also will be available. To register (required for individual consultations), call 216-421-1350.  Open House at Cleveland VA Medical Center  The Louis Stokes Cleveland VA Medical Center , 10701 East Blvd., Cleveland, will hold a Veterans Day Open House from 4:00 to 7:00 p.m. Nov. 11. The event will include tours of the medical center and a healthy cooking demonstration. Entertainment and refreshments will be provided.  Free flu shots at Cuyahoga County Board of Health  The Cuyahoga County Board of Health is providing free flu shots for people without insurance or who cannot pay. The walk-in flu shot clinic is from 9 to 11 a.m. weekdays at the board's offices at 5550 Venture Dr., Parma. For information or to schedule an appointment outside of the clinic hours, call 216-201-2041. If you have insurance, bring your card with you. The Cuyahoga County Board of Health, along with the City of Cleveland, Cleveland Clinic, MetroHealth System, Sisters of Charity Health System and University Hospitals, are part of the Focus on Flu campaign urging everyone to get a flu vaccine this year.  Follow Us  cleveland.com is powered by Plain Dealer Publishing Co. and Northeast Ohio Media Group. All rights reserved ( About Us ). The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Northeast Ohio Media Group LLC. 