 Opinion Letters  Pellets are not an alternative, as they do not prevent the flu  Friday, December 5, 2014 3:01:50 EST PM  The Interlake-Eastern Regional Health Authority is offering free flu clinics. (Postmedia Network)  The Examiner's article titled "Flu fighting methods debated" dated Nov. 10, unfortunately provided some misleading information to your readers with respect to the homeopathic flu pellets/pills that were described as an alternative immunization method to the influenza vaccine.  Simply put, these pellets are not an alternative, as they do not prevent the flu illness.  There have been scientific studies on the active ingredient, Oscillococcinum in homeopathic flu pellets. The world-renowned and respected scientific body, the Cochrane Collaboration, has recently again reviewed the scientific evidence in 2013, and has concluded that homoeopathic Oscillococcinum does not prevent influenza.¹  The review also writes, "Oscillococcinum is a homoeopathic preparation manufactured from wild duck heart and liver "¦ is then serially diluted 200 times with water and alcohol." Contrary to what was stated by the homeopath in your article, these pellets certainly are not made "from the same three influenza viruses decided by the World Health Organization each year."  There is no credible scientific evidence to support homeopathic flu pellets in preventing influenza.  There is no substitute for the yearly influenza vaccine offered by family physicians, pharmacies and the local health unit. The most effective method to prevent falling ill to influenza is through the yearly influenza vaccine that contains three different influenza A and B strains. The Canadian National Advisory Committee on Immunization states that the efficacy of the influenza vaccine in preventing influenza in healthy adults is about 60 to 80%. Influenza vaccines have been around for over 50 years and are very safe.  Dr. Colin Q-T Lee MD, MSc, CCFP(EM), FRCPC Associate Medical Officer of Health  Reader's comments »  If you already have an account on this newspaper, you can login to the newspaper to add your comments.  Local Businesses  Contribute  Send Your Scoop!  Subscription  Start your day with Barrie Examiner  Choose among a variety of subscription packages and stay up to date with convenient home delivery and our on the go digital e-edition. 